
-- random stuff

pseudops like eoln/eof/inset and others that in some cases do a single bit test
followed by a setvalue(cond) can peek ahead for a jumpcond pseudo op, poach
its label, and to a tb[n]z directly if it has a refcount of one.  First peephole
optimization?

optimizing sets ...

write another pass in improve?  doset lengths could be set to the eventual
length that's needed, for instance, though the code generator can hack that
easily enough.  

optimizing scratch register operations ...

Use improve to walk the tree looking at procedures that are called in the
current procedure and track the registers they have used when compiled, to
guide the codegenerator into prefered scratch registers to use.  And, of course,
and codegen time just mark scratch registers used by the called procedure.

Also ...

i in [a..b] with no non-emptyset constant component can be transformed into:

if (i>=a) and (i<=b)

by improve which, after all, is what we do generally to stay away from the "in"
operator when we know that it will be slower than the compare code.

implmentation in codegen could be something like ...

	ldr	x0, i
	cmp	x0, <a>
        cset ip0 0 or 1
      	cmp	x0, <b>
        cset ip1 zero or 1
        ands, wzr, ip0, ip1 <- t[b]nz
 
if seeking value, wzr is replaced with a register.

*** current bugs

   -- mda loops with a packed constant structure compiling m68K commc

   -- in comma why is the adp register wiped out for each movset?

   -- set arithmetic probably doesn't really handle intconsts
      correctly, need to check for handle bitmasks?

   -- assignment to a regparam is, as the procedure's comments say, what
      triggers addtempsaves to do so.

   -- dispose of a non-ref param assigned to a register generates a bad
      operand in genmove address.  Needs to be forced to copy to a memory
      (forcememory command).  See _p_removefile() and the dispose call
      in there, and remove the "var" qualifier on the file pointer parameter.
      While it must be allowed, it's not what is wanted (it needs to be
      a var param).

   -- settemp and signed ...

   -- for i := 1 to -1 fails? (treated as unsigned???)

   -- for i := var [down]to const (unimproved) should cmp with the const
      rather than load it into a register as it does now.  Scavenge code
      from cmplitint

   -- removing regparamhack reminded me that we need to recover stack
      space when we delete unneeded register spills.

      manipulate keyindex at restore context and end of compile?
      also lastbranch at end of compile?

   -- why aren't param spills in _p_copy deleted as the reg is never
      destroyed?

   -- code like add x0,x0,foo leads to x0's saved location on the stack
      begin marked "used" even if we never load from the saved location.

   -- 64-bit arithmetic doesn't work, not suprisingly.

  -- set arithmetic with the empty set fails unless the other set oprnds are
     longer than 32 bits.

     code generator needs to be able to shrink set operands.

--- current work

  -- the precedes lastbranch code is safe but silly.  It is really where
     labels are defined that is the issue, and if the key being considered
     lies between a branch and its label.

     <k>
     beq forward
     <changevalue k> safe to do to the copyaccess if any, i.e. the directly
     referenced key>
forward:

is safe? (and the forward label will be undefined so we would know it is safe).

     beq forward
     <k>
forward:
     <changevalue k>

Is not safe.>

Needs more thinking.  Nodes probably need numbering.

  -- instead of deleting instruction nodes, mark them with a "deleted" flag.
     If the compiler's details switch (or some other?) is given then write out
     the instruction as a comment, otherwise just skip over it.  Could help
     quite a bit with debugging these reg save/restore bugs, and also might
     be very helpful when debugging peephole optimizatios (like replacing
     "ands single bit bitmask/b.[ne/eq] label" with "tb[n]z bit#, label").

  -- look into shortvisit/unnestparams morass.

  -- cstring

     fold if possible, if not emit cstring function

  -- shared/def/use variable

     not my favorite thing.  But initputcode should walk the vartable and for
     shared vars each definitely gets a commnode.   For use/define?  Need to see
     how to communicate with C library for standard input/ouput streams.

     externs not defined need to use GOT crap.  For our code, if I add a
     --dynlib or the like switch we would, too.  GOT operands shouldn't be used
     as a regenoprnd because generation requires an ldr anyway, which is what
     regenoprnd is meant to avoid in the first place.
`
  -- error calls

     don't mark param regs when loading them.  don't mark scratch registers when
     calling them.  they do not return. 

  -- FILES

    -- Compiler

     main initiation:

	adrp	x0, :got:stdout
	ldr	x0, [x0, :got_lo12:stdout]


    -- Library

     Will have to figure out how to build a dynamic library (including GOT
     relocation?) in order to automatically initialize the library if called from
     outside Pascal with no main.  Not really pertinent because no one will be
     using this code (keep reminding yourself of this, Don).

  --

     Make special empty set integer constant and make movsetx deal with it rather
     than generate it in the string file.  This will be needed when type:[set const]
     extension. Conditionalize it as aarch64.

     test for case where short set variables are assigned regtemps due
     to frequent use.  Might generate some lousy code with extra moves?

     -- do for simplicity and clarity 

     Reg allocation has to get away from allocating 
     essentially exclusively to caller-saved regs but everything should be tested
     thoroughly before increasing use of callee-saved because it hammers register
     spilling, operand regeneration without using saved registers, etc.

-- next priorities:

0.1 Alignment and think about unaligned addressing which appears to work 
    except another thread can walk on you in between two parts being read
    or written if you cross a long boundary.  Investigate.  Track basic
    alignment in code generator much as "knowneven" in the mc68K codegen.

0.2 improve vs pushfinal which no longer exists (simpleinvar), need
    to add a finalop to replace pushfinal?  This is used to designate
    an invariant final limit ...

    Needs testing, it might actually work as is.

0.3
    align variables, too.

    unless in packed structure of course.

    This makes using 2, 4, 8, 16 byte moves possible for structs.

2. improve for loops/fix

   a. if a register is loaded before the top compare and after
      last branch (boolean expressions in first or last expression),
      mark it.  It doesn't need to be reloaded at the bottom.

9. lots of sign extension and the like issues?

10.targeting logic sucks on this machine, too many instances
   of ld xn, mem/op xm,xn/mov xn,xm/ when xm is no longer useful.

-- more general

1. Track calls to procs including intrinsics and determine which scratch
   registers are never used by called procedures in a block and 
   allocate those first so we can avoid saving them.  Track
   by context stack with more logic in travrs?

3. what's with cseregions being zero?  bug in the code?  Try it! (config)

Register parameters:

1. Complications include short structs that are passed in two registers.
   GCC passes the struct on the stack if there aren't two variables left.

2, Huge complication regarding records with uniform float/double fields that
   will fit in the parameter registers.

Future enhancements to improve:

1. This will require new pseudoops with some way to pass the add/sub
   operand along with the normal left/right ones, preferably without
   losing targeting.

   a) combine multiply followed by add or subtract into MADD/MSUB
   b) combine multiply followed by aindx with length of 1 (no scaling)
      into addrop+MADD/MSUB.
   c) don't forget the MNEG instruction!

2. flatten expressions with comparisions

n-1: find uses for all sorts of weird instructions
n. vectorization because that was something I always wanted to do ...

Peephole needs:

1. Two register loads from consecutive memory address converted to
   ldp insruction.

2. cmp xn,0; b.cond l -> cbz x0,l, cond and associated thingies

FAILS (for now at least)

0.1 

    Minor is that globals should be indexed before aindx with the variable
    base for this scheme, 'way back in body.pas.  Conditionalized for aarch64
    if course.

-- minor optimization reminders

1. var +/- intconst +/- intconst doesn't fold, though the documentation in
   improve claims it does so.  Blaim Steve from Eclipse? :)

